For our project, we built a website using Python, a SQL database, HTML files, Javascript, and CSS. The website is run using Flask. Divided into seven main HTML pages, we relied on Python for the majority of our complex code and passed necessary values into the HTML files to build the actual pages (as HTML is best equipped to build websites). We used Python because it works well with Flask and grants us access to helpful libraries such as Math.lib. Intermittently within our HTML pages, we used Javascript tags in order to build out any other necessary logical components within the HTML files, as Javascript and HTML work well in conjunction with one another. Utilizing a CSS file, we were able to "beautify" our website and create a  uniform appearance. Finally, a SQL database (which consists of four tables) was used to keep track of relevant data (especially regarding user data) that we could access as needed, independent of whether or not users were logged out or not actively accessing the website. We will now discuss each individual aspect of this layout in depth.
 
app.py contained the majority of our code. Within this Python file, we outlined functions that enable the building of HTML files, pass values into those files that are important, and generally executes logistical code. Many of these functions are app routers, or map out corresponding HTML pages; within some of these functions, there are Get and Post methods, which  execute code depending on whether the user was simply displaying a page or "doing something" with that page, respectively. Each of these functions are more specifically explained via our comments in app.py. All changes to the SQL database implicit in the running and execution of our HTML pages are done utilizing SQL queries in this app.py file. Additionally, we used a Python file named helpers.py, which consists of two functions that allow app.py to run. More specifically, it contains an apology function that allows us to alert a user when they have committed a user error, and what that error is. It also contains a login-required function, which ensures a page is not accessed unless the user is correctly logged in to an account.
 
The seven main HTML pages are as follows: a register page, login page, report page, wakeup page, bedtime page, findfriends page, and a data page. The register page is where we collect initial data from our user to load into the SQL table titled "users" (which will be explained in depth later). Once the user has registered, they may login using their login credentials (which has been saved to the users table). In the report page, the user inputs their sleep data into the sleeplog SQL table. This data is important because it allows us to track trends in users to later display on the data page, and constitutes the main purpose of our website as a sleeplog platform. The user may also access the wakeup page, which offers them new sources for that day, the daily forecast in their current location, and a daily affirmation. The new sources consist of three predefined websites displayed in their own containers, and includes the newsource's name and current date. The weather element utilizes a weather-fetching API and geolocation function to display the temperature, forecast, and location (in both city and longitude and longitude coordinates) of the user. The daily affirmation is randomly pulled from a pre-existing SQL table that stores affirmation quotes, the link from which those affirmations were taken, and a numeric ID. Which affirmation/when it is updated is determined within our Python wakeup function, which ensures that the user is only assigned one affirmation a day (by storing this quote and link in the user table) that changes only if the user logs in on a different day then their previous login. The bedtime page exhibits a relaxing gif, appealing background image, and a warning to the user to begin winding down for bedtime. A user is automatically directed to the morning page if they log in prior to noon, the bedtime page after 8pm and before 4am, and the report page in the hours in between. Next, the findfriends page consists of a dropdown menu where users can search for other users to follow. If they do so successfully, the user will now "follow" the other user by having their unique user IDs stored in the followers table. The user who did the following is stored as a "followee," and the person who has been followed is the "follower," but this interaction is one-sided (i.e., the follower is not implicitly following the followee). The data page allows for users to compare their data against other users in general, or against a specific friend. This comparison can occur exclusively or inclusively across gender and country/state of residence, and across as many days as the user wishes (though not more than the number of days for which the user has actually logged data). Based on which data points the user would like to compare, graphs are displayed using the Math Plot library and plot datetime objects selected from the SQLite database. 
 
While those are the main HTML pages (or, the pages the users interact with the most), there were a few lesser-important HTML files that ensured our website runs smoothly. apology.html, for instance, utilizes the apology function from helpers.py to display to the user when they have made an error, and what that error consists of. Additionally, ffsuccess.html exhibits to a user when they have successfully followed a new friend, and offers to take them back to the findfriends page. We decided to separate our Python code into these two files because it allowed for a more categorical and clean file distribution; one file “helps” our code and one more overtly “stores” the code.
 
A more complex design element in this project was the SQL database. This database, named sleep.db, contained four tables: users, followers, affirmations, and sleeplog. The users table holds users’ unique ID numbers, usernames, passwords (which has been hashed for privacy purposes), country, state (if applicable), gender, birthday, most recent login date, and current daily affirmation and link to that affirmation. The followers table (as described previously) holds two values: the user ID of the follower and the user ID of the followee. These two values are references to the users’ table id column. Affirmations (as described previously) holds a unique numeric ID, a quote (or, the affirmation), and the link to that quote (which we embed in the wakeup page to offer proper credit). With the unique numeric ID, we can randomize which affirmation is chosen to display for that specific day and user. Finally, sleeplog consists of the date the data was logged, what time the user went to sleep, when the user woke up, the rating of their sleep, and the user id. Every time a user logs their data, a new row is added to this table. This table is used to display trends on the data page.
 
We formatted these files using classes and identifiers from the CSS file named styles.css. This helped us to generally create a uniform appearance; we were able to format headers or divs similarly, and generally create neat pages. This file also helped us to create aesthetically formatted elements like an evenly distributed navigation bar, pretty containers for news sources, and a forecast formatter.
